---
layout: paper
title: "Monetary-Incentive Competition between Humans and Robots: Experimental Results"
project: EDMR
year: 2019
shortref: "Kshirsagar, Dreyfuss, Ishai, Heffetz & Hoffman. HRI 2019"
shorttitle: "Monetary-Incentive Competition between Humans and Robots: Experimental Result"
nickname: ebrd-HRI
journal: "ACM/IEEE International  Conference on Human-Robot Interaction (HRI)"
volume:
issue:
pages:
authors: "Kshirsagar, A., Dreyfuss, B., Ishai, G., Heffetz, O., & Hoffman, G."
image: ebrd-hri.jpg
pdf: 2019-03-11-ebrd-hri.pdf
fulltext:
pubtype: conference
github:
pmid:  
pmcid:
f1000:
figshare:
doi: 10.1109/HRI.2019.8673201
category: papers
published: true
award:
tags: [studies, competition]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Abstract

In a controlled experiment, participants (_n = 60_) competed in a monotonous task with an autonomous robot for
real monetary incentives. For each participant, we manipulated the robot’s performance and the monetary incentive level across ten rounds. In each round, a participant’s performance compared to the robot’s would affect their odds in a lottery for the monetary prize. Standard economic theory predicts that people’s effort will increase with prize value. Furthermore, recent work in behavioral economics predicts that there will also be a discouragement effect, with stronger robot performance discouraging human effort, and that this effect will increase with prize. We were not able to detect a meaningful effect of monetary prize, and were thus not able to replicate the results of a prior similar experiment that involved a sequential competition between two humans. However, we found a small discouragement effect, with human effort decreasing
with increased robot performance, significant at the _p < 0.005_ level. Using per-round subjective indicators, we also found a positive effect of robot performance on its perceived competence, a negative effect on the participants’ liking of the robot, and a negative effect on the participants’ own competence, all at _p < 0.0001_. These findings shed light on how people may exert work effort and perceive robotic competitors in a human-robot workforce, and could have implications on labor supply decisions and the design of compensation schemes in the workplace.
